

A new Request for Comments is now available in online RFC libraries.


        RFC 1964:

        Title:      The Kerberos Version 5 GSS-API Mechanism
        Author:     J. Linn
        Date:       June 1996
        Mailbox:    John.Linn@ov.com
        Pages:      20
        Characters: 47,413
        Updates/Obsoletes: none

        URL:        ftp://ds.internic.net/rfc/rfc1964.txt


This specification defines protocols, procedures, and conventions to
be employed by peers implementing the Generic Security Service
Application Program Interface (as specified in RFCs 1508 and 1509)
when using Kerberos Version 5 technology (as specified in RFC 1510).
This RFC is the product of the Common Authentication Technology
Working Group of the IETF.

This now a Proposed Standard Protocol.

This document specifies an Internet standards track protocol for the
Internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.  Please refer to the current edition of the "Internet
Official Protocol Standards" (STD 1) for the standardization state and
status of this protocol.  Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

This announcement is sent to the IETF list and the RFC-DIST list.
Requests to be added to or deleted from the IETF distribution list
should be sent to IETF-REQUEST@CNRI.RESTON.VA.US.  Requests to be
added to or deleted from the RFC-DIST distribution list should
be sent to RFC-DIST-REQUEST@ISI.EDU.

Details on obtaining RFCs via FTP or EMAIL may be obtained by sending
an EMAIL message to rfc-info@ISI.EDU with the message body 
help: ways_to_get_rfcs.  For example:

        To: rfc-info@ISI.EDU
        Subject: getting rfcs

        help: ways_to_get_rfcs

Requests for special distribution should be addressed to either the
author of the RFC in question, or to admin@DS.INTERNIC.NET.  Unless
specifically noted otherwise on the RFC itself, all RFCs are for
unlimited distribution.

Submissions for Requests for Comments should be sent to
RFC-EDITOR@ISI.EDU.  Please consult RFC 1543, Instructions to RFC
Authors, for further information.


Joyce K. Reynolds
USC/Information Sciences Institute

